README.md, before:

<!-- README based on jlesage's one for MKVToolNix -->
# Docker container for LosslessCut

[LosslessCut]: https://github.com/mifi/lossless-cut

[![Build on push](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/actions/workflows/ci.yaml)
[![Deploy image to registry](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/actions/workflows/build-and-deploy.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/actions/workflows/build-and-deploy.yaml)

![Docker Image Version (latest semver)](https://img.shields.io/docker/v/outlyernet/losslesscut?sort=semver)
[![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/outlyernet/losslesscut/latest)](https://hub.docker.com/r/outlyernet/losslesscut/tags)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut)](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/blob/master/LICENSE)

This is a Docker container for [LosslessCut].

The GUI of the application is accessed through a modern web browser (no installation or configuration needed on the client side) or via any VNC client.

---

[![LosslessCut logo](https://images.weserv.nl/?url=https://github.com/mifi/lossless-cut/raw/master/src/icon.svg&w=160)][LosslessCut]

**LosslessCut**\
The swiss army knife of lossless video/audio editing 

---

## Table of Content

   * [Quick Start](#quick-start)
   * [Usage](#usage)
      * [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
      * [Data Volumes](#data-volumes)
      * [Ports](#ports)
      * [Changing Parameters of a Running Container](#changing-parameters-of-a-running-container)
   * [Docker Compose File](#docker-compose-file)
   * [Docker Image Versioning](#docker-image-versioning)
   * [User/Group IDs](#usergroup-ids)
   * [Accessing the GUI](#accessing-the-gui)
   * [Security](#security)
      * [Certificates](#certificates)
      * [VNC Password](#vnc-password)
   * [Shell Access](#shell-access)
   * [Support or Contact](#support-or-contact)

## Quick Start

Launch the LosslessCut docker container with the following command:
```shell
docker run --rm -d \
    --name=losslesscut \
    -p 5800:5800 \
    -v /path/to/data/losslesscut:/config:rw \
    -v $HOME:/storage:rw \
    outlyernet/losslesscut
```

Where:
  - `/path/to/data/losslesscut`: Where the application stores any persistent data.
  - `$HOME`: This location contains files from your host that need to be accessible to the application.

Browse to `http://your-host-ip:5800` to access the LosslessCut GUI.
Files from the host appear under the `/storage` folder in the container.

**Notes:**
* This Docker command is given as an example and parameters should be adjusted to your needs.
* The image is available in both Docker Hub as `outlyernet/losslesscut` and the GitHub Container Registry as `ghcr.io/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut`
* For additional documentation see the [base image](https://github.com/jlesage/docker-baseimage-gui).

## Usage

```shell
docker run [--rm] [-d] \
    [--name=losslesscut] \
    [-e <VARIABLE_NAME>=<VALUE>]... \
    [-v <HOST_DIR>:<CONTAINER_DIR>[:PERMISSIONS]]... \
    [-p <HOST_PORT>:<CONTAINER_PORT>]... \
    outlyernet/losslesscut
```
| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `--rm`    | Destroy the container once it stops. |
| `-d`      | Run the container in the background.  If not set, the container runs in the foreground. |
| `-e`      | Pass an environment variable to the container.  See the [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section for more details. |
| `-v`      | Set a volume mapping (allows to share a folder/file between the host and the container).  See the [Data Volumes](#data-volumes) section for more details. |
| `-p`      | Set a network port mapping (exposes an internal container port to the host).  See the [Ports](#ports) section for more details. |
| `--name`  | Assign a name to the container |

### Environment Variables

To customize some properties of the container, the following environment variables can be passed via the `-e` parameter (one for each variable).\
Values of this parameter has the format `<VARIABLE_NAME>=<VALUE>`.

| Variable       | Description                                  | Default |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------|---------|
|`USER_ID`| ID of the user the application runs as.  See [User/Group IDs](#usergroup-ids) to better understand when this should be set. | `1000` |
|`GROUP_ID`| ID of the group the application runs as.  See [User/Group IDs](#usergroup-ids) to better understand when this should be set. | `1000` |
|`SUP_GROUP_IDS`| Comma-separated list of supplementary group IDs of the application. | `""` |
|`UMASK`| Mask that controls how file permissions are set for newly created files. The value of the mask is in octal notation.  By default, the default umask value is `0022`, meaning that newly created files are readable by everyone, but only writable by the owner.  See the online umask calculator at http://wintelguy.com/umask-calc.pl. | `0022` |
|`LANG`| Set the [locale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locale_(computer_software)), which defines the application's language, **if supported**.  Format of the locale is `language[_territory][.codeset]`, where language is an [ISO 639 language code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes), territory is an [ISO 3166 country code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1#Current_codes) and codeset is a character set, like `UTF-8`.  For example, Australian English using the UTF-8 encoding is `en_AU.UTF-8`. | `en_US.UTF-8` |
|`TZ`| [TimeZone](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) used by the container.  Timezone can also be set by mapping `/etc/localtime` between the host and the container. | `Etc/UTC` |
|`KEEP_APP_RUNNING`| When set to `1`, the application will be automatically restarted when it crashes or terminates. | `0` |
|`APP_NICENESS`| Priority at which the application should run.  A niceness value of -20 is the highest priority and 19 is the lowest priority.  The default niceness value is 0.  **NOTE**: A negative niceness (priority increase) requires additional permissions.  In this case, the container should be run with the docker option `--cap-add=SYS_NICE`. | `0` |
|`INSTALL_PACKAGES`| Space-separated list of packages to install during the startup of the container.  Packages are installed from the repository of the Linux distribution this container is based on.  **ATTENTION**: Container functionality can be affected when installing a package that overrides existing container files (e.g. binaries). | `""` |
|`CONTAINER_DEBUG`| Set to `1` to enable debug logging. | `0` |
|`DISPLAY_WIDTH`| Width (in pixels) of the application's window. | `1920` |
|`DISPLAY_HEIGHT`| Height (in pixels) of the application's window. | `1080` |
|`DARK_MODE`| When set to `1`, dark mode is enabled for the application. | `0` |
|`SECURE_CONNECTION`| When set to `1`, an encrypted connection is used to access the application's GUI (either via a web browser or VNC client).  See the [Security](#security) section for more details. | `0` |
|`SECURE_CONNECTION_VNC_METHOD`| Method used to perform the secure VNC connection.  Possible values are `SSL` or `TLS`.  See the [Security](#security) section for more details. | `SSL` |
|`SECURE_CONNECTION_CERTS_CHECK_INTERVAL`| Interval, in seconds, at which the system verifies if web or VNC certificates have changed.  When a change is detected, the affected services are automatically restarted.  A value of `0` disables the check. | `60` |
|`WEB_LISTENING_PORT`| Port used by the web server to serve the UI of the application.  This port is used internally by the container and it is usually not required to be changed.  By default, a container is created with the default bridge network, meaning that, to be accessible, each internal container port must be mapped to an external port (using the `-p` or `--publish` argument).  However, if the container is created with another network type, changing the port used by the container might be useful to prevent conflict with other services/containers.  **NOTE**: a value of `-1` disables listening, meaning that the application's UI won't be accessible over HTTP/HTTPs. | `5800` |
|`VNC_LISTENING_PORT`| Port used by the VNC server to serve the UI of the application.  This port is used internally by the container and it is usually not required to be changed.  By default, a container is created with the default bridge network, meaning that, to be accessible, each internal container port must be mapped to an external port (using the `-p` or `--publish` argument).  However, if the container is created with another network type, changing the port used by the container might be useful to prevent conflict with other services/containers.  **NOTE**: a value of `-1` disables listening, meaning that the application's UI won't be accessible over VNC. | `5900` |
|`VNC_PASSWORD`| Password needed to connect to the application's GUI.  See the [VNC Password](#vnc-password) section for more details. | `""` |
|`ENABLE_CJK_FONT`| When set to `1`, open-source computer font `WenQuanYi Zen Hei` is installed.  This font contains a large range of Chinese/Japanese/Korean characters. | `0` |

### Data Volumes

The following table describes data volumes used by the container. \
The mappings are set via the `-v` parameter.\
Each mapping is specified with the following format:\
`<HOST_DIR>:<CONTAINER_DIR>[:PERMISSIONS]`.

| Container path  | Permissions | Description |
|-----------------|-------------|-------------|
|`/config`| rw | This is where the application stores its configuration, states, log and any files needing persistency. |
|`/storage`| rw | This location contains files from your host that need to be accessible to the application. |

### Ports

Here is the list of ports used by the container.  They can be mapped to the host
via the `-p` parameter (one per port mapping).  Each mapping is defined in the
following format: `<HOST_PORT>:<CONTAINER_PORT>`.  The port number inside the
container cannot be changed, but you are free to use any port on the host side.

| Port | Mapping to host | Description |
|------|-----------------|-------------|
| 5800 | Optional | Port to access the application's GUI via the web interface.  Mapping to the host is optional if access through the web interface is not wanted.  For a container not using the default bridge network, the port can be changed with the `WEB_LISTENING_PORT` environment variable. |
| 5900 | Optional | Port to access the application's GUI via the VNC protocol.  Mapping to the host is optional if access through the VNC protocol is not wanted.  For a container not using the default bridge network, the port can be changed with the `VNC_LISTENING_PORT` environment variable. |

### Changing Parameters of a Running Container

As can be seen, environment variables, volume and port mappings are all specified while creating the container.

The following steps describe the method used to add, remove or update parameter(s) of an existing container.  The general idea is to destroy and
re-create the container:

  1. Stop the container (if it is running):
```
docker stop losslesscut
```
  2. Remove the container:
```
docker rm losslesscut
```
  3. Create/start the container using the `docker run` command, by adjusting
     parameters as needed.

**NOTE**: Since all application's data is saved under the `/config` container folder, destroying and re-creating a container is not a problem: nothing is lost and the application comes back with the same state (as long as the mapping of the `/config` folder remains the same).

## Docker Compose File

Here is an example of a `docker-compose.yml` file that can be used with [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/overview/).

Make sure to adjust according to your needs.  Note that only mandatory network
ports are part of the example.

```yaml
---
services:
  losslesscut:
    image: outlyernet/losslesscut
    ports:
      - "5800:5800" # Web UI
    volumes:
      - "./losslesscut:/config:rw"
      - "$HOME:/storage:rw"
    environment:
      DARK_MODE: "1"
      SECURE_CONNECTION: "1"
```

## Docker Image Versioning

Each release of a Docker image is versioned using [semantic versioning](https://semver.org) matching the version of the bundled LosslessCut.\
Additional tags for *major* and *major.minor* versions are also provided.
\
In case the image is updated it will have an additional `-v<NUMBER>` indicating the new version.

Example tags:
| Tag | Interpret as 
|-----|-----------------------------------------------
| `:latest` | Always points to the most up to date image
| `:3.47.1` | LosslessCut v3.47.1
| `:3.47`   | Latest image built with LosslessCut v3.47.x
| `:3`      | Latest image built with LosslessCut v3.x.y
| `:3.47-v1`| First image built with LosslessCut v3.47.x

## User/Group IDs

When using data volumes (`-v` flags), permissions issues can occur between the host and the container.\
For example, the user within the container may not
exist on the host.\
This could prevent the host from properly accessing files and folders on the shared volume.

To avoid any problem, you can specify the user the application should run as.

This is done by passing the user ID and group ID to the container via the `USER_ID` and `GROUP_ID` environment variables.

To find the right IDs to use, issue the following command on the host, with the
user owning the data volume on the host:
```shell
$ id <username>
```

Which gives an output like this one:
```
uid=1000(myuser) gid=1000(myuser) groups=1000(myuser),4(adm),24(cdrom),27(sudo),46(plugdev),113(lpadmin)
```

The value of `uid` (user ID) and `gid` (group ID) are the ones that you should be given the container.

## Accessing the GUI

Assuming that container's ports are mapped to the same host's ports, the
graphical interface of the application can be accessed via:

  * A web browser:
```
http://<HOST IP ADDR>:5800
```

  * Any VNC client:
```
<HOST IP ADDR>:5900
```

## Security

By default, access to the application's GUI is done over an unencrypted
connection (HTTP or VNC).

Secure connection can be enabled via the `SECURE_CONNECTION` environment
variable.\
See the [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section for more details on how to set an environment variable.

When enabled, application's GUI is performed over an HTTPs connection when accessed with a browser.\
All HTTP accesses are automatically redirected to HTTPs.

When using a VNC client, the VNC connection is performed over SSL.\
Note that few VNC clients support this method.  [SSVNC] is one of them.

[SSVNC]: http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssvnc.html

### Certificates

Here are the encryption certificate files needed by the container.\
By default, when they are missing, self-signed certificates are generated and used.\
All files have PEM encoded, x509 certificates.

| Container Path                  | Purpose                    | Content |
|---------------------------------|----------------------------|---------|
|`/config/certs/vnc-server.pem`   |VNC connection encryption.  |VNC server's private key and certificate, bundled with any root and intermediate certificates.|
|`/config/certs/web-privkey.pem`  |HTTPs connection encryption.|Web server's private key.|
|`/config/certs/web-fullchain.pem`|HTTPs connection encryption.|Web server's certificate, bundled with any root and intermediate certificates.|

**NOTE**: To prevent any certificate validity warnings/errors from the browser or VNC client, make sure to supply your own valid certificates.

**NOTE**: Certificate files are monitored and relevant daemons are automatically restarted when changes are detected.

### VNC Password

To restrict access to your application, a password can be specified.  This can
be done via two methods:
  * By using the `VNC_PASSWORD` environment variable.
  * By creating a `.vncpass_clear` file at the root of the `/config` volume.
    This file should contain the password in clear-text.  During the container
    startup, content of the file is obfuscated and moved to `.vncpass`.

The level of security provided by the VNC password depends on two things:
  * The type of communication channel (encrypted/unencrypted).
  * How secure the access to the host is.

When using a VNC password, it is highly desirable to enable the secure
connection to prevent sending the password in clear over an unencrypted channel.

**ATTENTION**: Password is limited to 8 characters.  This limitation comes from
the Remote Framebuffer Protocol [RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6143) (see
section [7.2.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6143#section-7.2.2)).  Any
characters beyond the limit are ignored.

## Shell Access

To get shell access to the running container, execute the following command:

```shell
docker exec -ti CONTAINER sh
```

Where `CONTAINER` is the ID or the name of the container used during its
creation (e.g. `losslesscut`).

## Support or Contact

Having troubles with the container or have questions?  Please
[create a new issue].

For other great Dockerized applications by *[jlesage][jlesage]*, see https://jlesage.github.io/docker-apps.

[jlesage]: https://github.com/jlesage
[create a new issue]: https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/issues

Commit message:

Add WEB_AUDIO to the list of variables

README.md, after:

<!-- README based on jlesage's one for MKVToolNix -->
# Docker container for LosslessCut

[LosslessCut]: https://github.com/mifi/lossless-cut

[![Build on push](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/actions/workflows/ci.yaml)
[![Deploy image to registry](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/actions/workflows/build-and-deploy.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/actions/workflows/build-and-deploy.yaml)

![Docker Image Version (latest semver)](https://img.shields.io/docker/v/outlyernet/losslesscut?sort=semver)
[![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/outlyernet/losslesscut/latest)](https://hub.docker.com/r/outlyernet/losslesscut/tags)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut)](https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/blob/master/LICENSE)

This is a Docker container for [LosslessCut].

The GUI of the application is accessed through a modern web browser (no installation or configuration needed on the client side) or via any VNC client.

---

[![LosslessCut logo](https://images.weserv.nl/?url=https://github.com/mifi/lossless-cut/raw/master/src/icon.svg&w=160)][LosslessCut]

**LosslessCut**\
The swiss army knife of lossless video/audio editing 

---

## Table of Content

   * [Quick Start](#quick-start)
   * [Usage](#usage)
      * [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
      * [Data Volumes](#data-volumes)
      * [Ports](#ports)
      * [Changing Parameters of a Running Container](#changing-parameters-of-a-running-container)
   * [Docker Compose File](#docker-compose-file)
   * [Docker Image Versioning](#docker-image-versioning)
   * [User/Group IDs](#usergroup-ids)
   * [Accessing the GUI](#accessing-the-gui)
   * [Security](#security)
      * [Certificates](#certificates)
      * [VNC Password](#vnc-password)
   * [Shell Access](#shell-access)
   * [Support or Contact](#support-or-contact)

## Quick Start

Launch the LosslessCut docker container with the following command:
```shell
docker run --rm -d \
    --name=losslesscut \
    -p 5800:5800 \
    -v /path/to/data/losslesscut:/config:rw \
    -v $HOME:/storage:rw \
    outlyernet/losslesscut
```

Where:
  - `/path/to/data/losslesscut`: Where the application stores any persistent data.
  - `$HOME`: This location contains files from your host that need to be accessible to the application.

Browse to `http://your-host-ip:5800` to access the LosslessCut GUI.
Files from the host appear under the `/storage` folder in the container.

**Notes:**
* This Docker command is given as an example and parameters should be adjusted to your needs.
* The image is available in both Docker Hub as `outlyernet/losslesscut` and the GitHub Container Registry as `ghcr.io/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut`
* For additional documentation see the [base image](https://github.com/jlesage/docker-baseimage-gui).

## Usage

```shell
docker run [--rm] [-d] \
    [--name=losslesscut] \
    [-e <VARIABLE_NAME>=<VALUE>]... \
    [-v <HOST_DIR>:<CONTAINER_DIR>[:PERMISSIONS]]... \
    [-p <HOST_PORT>:<CONTAINER_PORT>]... \
    outlyernet/losslesscut
```
| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| `--rm`    | Destroy the container once it stops. |
| `-d`      | Run the container in the background.  If not set, the container runs in the foreground. |
| `-e`      | Pass an environment variable to the container.  See the [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section for more details. |
| `-v`      | Set a volume mapping (allows to share a folder/file between the host and the container).  See the [Data Volumes](#data-volumes) section for more details. |
| `-p`      | Set a network port mapping (exposes an internal container port to the host).  See the [Ports](#ports) section for more details. |
| `--name`  | Assign a name to the container |

### Environment Variables

To customize some properties of the container, the following environment variables can be passed via the `-e` parameter (one for each variable).\
Values of this parameter has the format `<VARIABLE_NAME>=<VALUE>`.

| Variable       | Description                                  | Default |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------|---------|
|`USER_ID`| ID of the user the application runs as.  See [User/Group IDs](#usergroup-ids) to better understand when this should be set. | `1000` |
|`GROUP_ID`| ID of the group the application runs as.  See [User/Group IDs](#usergroup-ids) to better understand when this should be set. | `1000` |
|`SUP_GROUP_IDS`| Comma-separated list of supplementary group IDs of the application. | `""` |
|`UMASK`| Mask that controls how file permissions are set for newly created files. The value of the mask is in octal notation.  By default, the default umask value is `0022`, meaning that newly created files are readable by everyone, but only writable by the owner.  See the online umask calculator at http://wintelguy.com/umask-calc.pl. | `0022` |
|`LANG`| Set the [locale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locale_(computer_software)), which defines the application's language, **if supported**.  Format of the locale is `language[_territory][.codeset]`, where language is an [ISO 639 language code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes), territory is an [ISO 3166 country code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1#Current_codes) and codeset is a character set, like `UTF-8`.  For example, Australian English using the UTF-8 encoding is `en_AU.UTF-8`. | `en_US.UTF-8` |
|`TZ`| [TimeZone](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) used by the container.  Timezone can also be set by mapping `/etc/localtime` between the host and the container. | `Etc/UTC` |
|`KEEP_APP_RUNNING`| When set to `1`, the application will be automatically restarted when it crashes or terminates. | `0` |
|`APP_NICENESS`| Priority at which the application should run.  A niceness value of -20 is the highest priority and 19 is the lowest priority.  The default niceness value is 0.  **NOTE**: A negative niceness (priority increase) requires additional permissions.  In this case, the container should be run with the docker option `--cap-add=SYS_NICE`. | `0` |
|`INSTALL_PACKAGES`| Space-separated list of packages to install during the startup of the container.  Packages are installed from the repository of the Linux distribution this container is based on.  **ATTENTION**: Container functionality can be affected when installing a package that overrides existing container files (e.g. binaries). | `""` |
|`CONTAINER_DEBUG`| Set to `1` to enable debug logging. | `0` |
|`DISPLAY_WIDTH`| Width (in pixels) of the application's window. | `1920` |
|`DISPLAY_HEIGHT`| Height (in pixels) of the application's window. | `1080` |
|`DARK_MODE`| When set to `1`, dark mode is enabled for the application. | `0` |
|`WEB_AUDIO`| When set to `1`, audio support is enabled, meaning that any audio produced by the application is played through the browser. Note that audio is not supported for VNC clients. | `0` |
|`SECURE_CONNECTION`| When set to `1`, an encrypted connection is used to access the application's GUI (either via a web browser or VNC client).  See the [Security](#security) section for more details. | `0` |
|`SECURE_CONNECTION_VNC_METHOD`| Method used to perform the secure VNC connection.  Possible values are `SSL` or `TLS`.  See the [Security](#security) section for more details. | `SSL` |
|`SECURE_CONNECTION_CERTS_CHECK_INTERVAL`| Interval, in seconds, at which the system verifies if web or VNC certificates have changed.  When a change is detected, the affected services are automatically restarted.  A value of `0` disables the check. | `60` |
|`WEB_LISTENING_PORT`| Port used by the web server to serve the UI of the application.  This port is used internally by the container and it is usually not required to be changed.  By default, a container is created with the default bridge network, meaning that, to be accessible, each internal container port must be mapped to an external port (using the `-p` or `--publish` argument).  However, if the container is created with another network type, changing the port used by the container might be useful to prevent conflict with other services/containers.  **NOTE**: a value of `-1` disables listening, meaning that the application's UI won't be accessible over HTTP/HTTPs. | `5800` |
|`VNC_LISTENING_PORT`| Port used by the VNC server to serve the UI of the application.  This port is used internally by the container and it is usually not required to be changed.  By default, a container is created with the default bridge network, meaning that, to be accessible, each internal container port must be mapped to an external port (using the `-p` or `--publish` argument).  However, if the container is created with another network type, changing the port used by the container might be useful to prevent conflict with other services/containers.  **NOTE**: a value of `-1` disables listening, meaning that the application's UI won't be accessible over VNC. | `5900` |
|`VNC_PASSWORD`| Password needed to connect to the application's GUI.  See the [VNC Password](#vnc-password) section for more details. | `""` |
|`ENABLE_CJK_FONT`| When set to `1`, open-source computer font `WenQuanYi Zen Hei` is installed.  This font contains a large range of Chinese/Japanese/Korean characters. | `0` |

### Data Volumes

The following table describes data volumes used by the container. \
The mappings are set via the `-v` parameter.\
Each mapping is specified with the following format:\
`<HOST_DIR>:<CONTAINER_DIR>[:PERMISSIONS]`.

| Container path  | Permissions | Description |
|-----------------|-------------|-------------|
|`/config`| rw | This is where the application stores its configuration, states, log and any files needing persistency. |
|`/storage`| rw | This location contains files from your host that need to be accessible to the application. |

### Ports

Here is the list of ports used by the container.  They can be mapped to the host
via the `-p` parameter (one per port mapping).  Each mapping is defined in the
following format: `<HOST_PORT>:<CONTAINER_PORT>`.  The port number inside the
container cannot be changed, but you are free to use any port on the host side.

| Port | Mapping to host | Description |
|------|-----------------|-------------|
| 5800 | Optional | Port to access the application's GUI via the web interface.  Mapping to the host is optional if access through the web interface is not wanted.  For a container not using the default bridge network, the port can be changed with the `WEB_LISTENING_PORT` environment variable. |
| 5900 | Optional | Port to access the application's GUI via the VNC protocol.  Mapping to the host is optional if access through the VNC protocol is not wanted.  For a container not using the default bridge network, the port can be changed with the `VNC_LISTENING_PORT` environment variable. |

### Changing Parameters of a Running Container

As can be seen, environment variables, volume and port mappings are all specified while creating the container.

The following steps describe the method used to add, remove or update parameter(s) of an existing container.  The general idea is to destroy and
re-create the container:

  1. Stop the container (if it is running):
```
docker stop losslesscut
```
  2. Remove the container:
```
docker rm losslesscut
```
  3. Create/start the container using the `docker run` command, by adjusting
     parameters as needed.

**NOTE**: Since all application's data is saved under the `/config` container folder, destroying and re-creating a container is not a problem: nothing is lost and the application comes back with the same state (as long as the mapping of the `/config` folder remains the same).

## Docker Compose File

Here is an example of a `docker-compose.yml` file that can be used with [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/overview/).

Make sure to adjust according to your needs.  Note that only mandatory network
ports are part of the example.

```yaml
---
services:
  losslesscut:
    image: outlyernet/losslesscut
    ports:
      - "5800:5800" # Web UI
    volumes:
      - "./losslesscut:/config:rw"
      - "$HOME:/storage:rw"
    environment:
      DARK_MODE: "1"
      SECURE_CONNECTION: "1"
```

## Docker Image Versioning

Each release of a Docker image is versioned using [semantic versioning](https://semver.org) matching the version of the bundled LosslessCut.\
Additional tags for *major* and *major.minor* versions are also provided.
\
In case the image is updated it will have an additional `-v<NUMBER>` indicating the new version.

Example tags:
| Tag | Interpret as 
|-----|-----------------------------------------------
| `:latest` | Always points to the most up to date image
| `:3.47.1` | LosslessCut v3.47.1
| `:3.47`   | Latest image built with LosslessCut v3.47.x
| `:3`      | Latest image built with LosslessCut v3.x.y
| `:3.47-v1`| First image built with LosslessCut v3.47.x

## User/Group IDs

When using data volumes (`-v` flags), permissions issues can occur between the host and the container.\
For example, the user within the container may not
exist on the host.\
This could prevent the host from properly accessing files and folders on the shared volume.

To avoid any problem, you can specify the user the application should run as.

This is done by passing the user ID and group ID to the container via the `USER_ID` and `GROUP_ID` environment variables.

To find the right IDs to use, issue the following command on the host, with the
user owning the data volume on the host:
```shell
$ id <username>
```

Which gives an output like this one:
```
uid=1000(myuser) gid=1000(myuser) groups=1000(myuser),4(adm),24(cdrom),27(sudo),46(plugdev),113(lpadmin)
```

The value of `uid` (user ID) and `gid` (group ID) are the ones that you should be given the container.

## Accessing the GUI

Assuming that container's ports are mapped to the same host's ports, the
graphical interface of the application can be accessed via:

  * A web browser:
```
http://<HOST IP ADDR>:5800
```

  * Any VNC client:
```
<HOST IP ADDR>:5900
```

## Security

By default, access to the application's GUI is done over an unencrypted
connection (HTTP or VNC).

Secure connection can be enabled via the `SECURE_CONNECTION` environment
variable.\
See the [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section for more details on how to set an environment variable.

When enabled, application's GUI is performed over an HTTPs connection when accessed with a browser.\
All HTTP accesses are automatically redirected to HTTPs.

When using a VNC client, the VNC connection is performed over SSL.\
Note that few VNC clients support this method.  [SSVNC] is one of them.

[SSVNC]: http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssvnc.html

### Certificates

Here are the encryption certificate files needed by the container.\
By default, when they are missing, self-signed certificates are generated and used.\
All files have PEM encoded, x509 certificates.

| Container Path                  | Purpose                    | Content |
|---------------------------------|----------------------------|---------|
|`/config/certs/vnc-server.pem`   |VNC connection encryption.  |VNC server's private key and certificate, bundled with any root and intermediate certificates.|
|`/config/certs/web-privkey.pem`  |HTTPs connection encryption.|Web server's private key.|
|`/config/certs/web-fullchain.pem`|HTTPs connection encryption.|Web server's certificate, bundled with any root and intermediate certificates.|

**NOTE**: To prevent any certificate validity warnings/errors from the browser or VNC client, make sure to supply your own valid certificates.

**NOTE**: Certificate files are monitored and relevant daemons are automatically restarted when changes are detected.

### VNC Password

To restrict access to your application, a password can be specified.  This can
be done via two methods:
  * By using the `VNC_PASSWORD` environment variable.
  * By creating a `.vncpass_clear` file at the root of the `/config` volume.
    This file should contain the password in clear-text.  During the container
    startup, content of the file is obfuscated and moved to `.vncpass`.

The level of security provided by the VNC password depends on two things:
  * The type of communication channel (encrypted/unencrypted).
  * How secure the access to the host is.

When using a VNC password, it is highly desirable to enable the secure
connection to prevent sending the password in clear over an unencrypted channel.

**ATTENTION**: Password is limited to 8 characters.  This limitation comes from
the Remote Framebuffer Protocol [RFC](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6143) (see
section [7.2.2](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6143#section-7.2.2)).  Any
characters beyond the limit are ignored.

## Shell Access

To get shell access to the running container, execute the following command:

```shell
docker exec -ti CONTAINER sh
```

Where `CONTAINER` is the ID or the name of the container used during its
creation (e.g. `losslesscut`).

## Support or Contact

Having troubles with the container or have questions?  Please
[create a new issue].

For other great Dockerized applications by *[jlesage][jlesage]*, see https://jlesage.github.io/docker-apps.

[jlesage]: https://github.com/jlesage
[create a new issue]: https://github.com/outlyer-net/docker-losslesscut/issues
